
4

Automatic Zoom
PROJECT: Dead Channel 
VERSION: v.01 
LAST UPDATED: 1/31/2026 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
1. Vision 
 
You’re a mercenary hacker in a gritty cyberpunk world. Your job is to 
assemble a team and support them remotely while they complete their 
objectives. You’re the invisible hand that makes impossible heists 
possible... but only barely. 
 
Elevator Pitch: 2 parts “plate spinning” time management + 1 part 
hacking simulation + 1 part roster management + a dash of autobattler 
 
Inspirations: 
> Shadowrun (particularly the Genesis game - gritty “independent 
contractor” vibe) 
> Invisible Inc. (high tension, escalating difficulty, narrow margins 
for error) 
> XCOM (always on the backfoot, outgunned and out numbered) 
> Darkest Dungeon (quirks and roster management) 
> Papers Please (subtle attention checks) 
> Rhythm Doctor (meta-mechanics that affect the interface) 
 
2. Core Loop 
 
The game has 2 primary layers: the Run layer (individual missions, 
core moment-to-moment gameplay) and a Management layer (building and 
advancing your team and your personal tech). Primary focus at this 
point is the Run layer. 
 
Run Layer: The screen is divided in two parts. On the top is a 
horizontal track that abstractly represents the runner team and their 
path toward their objective(s). The runner team is represented on the 
left, and obstacles and other interactables will scroll toward them 
from the right. The player can interact with objects on the track to 
hack them, which usually will involve one of several kinds of short 
puzzles, which will appear as moveable popup windows. Once hacked, 
obstacles can be temporarily disabled or altered to protect your team 
from them. Often there will be too many obstacles to completely handle 
them all, meaning the player has to perform rapid threat assessment 
and triage under pressure. The player has access to a suite of 
software that can help them deal with various challenges, but may also 
face hostile countermeasures that can disrupt them. Various actions 
both on the runner’s level and the players can contribute to (or 
sometimes detract from) a global “heat” gauge that escalates the run’s 
difficulty. 
 
Management Layer: Using the money gained from their runs, the player 
will be able to hire and develop a permanent team of runners, each of 
which may have their own unique skills, strengths, weaknesses and 
quirks. The player will also be able to upgrade their cyberdeck with 
new programs and other enhancements. 
 
3. Design Pillars 
 
Triage over mastery. The player should never clear everything perfectly. 
Success is smart prioritization and keeping cool under pressure. 
Attention as resource. Complexity (mostly) comes from competing demands, 
not mechanical difficulty. 
Indirect control. The player influences but never commands. The runners 
are people, not units. 
4. Mechanics 
   4.1 Progress Track / Signal Timeline 
   
The core mechanic. Appears as a horizontal bar stretching across 
the screen, split into 5 horizontal sections, like a music staff. The 
runner team is represented by an icon on the left side in the middle 
track. Obstacles (such as doors, cameras and guards), objectives and 
other interactables (collectively called Signals) will usually appear 
on the left side and scroll toward the runner team’s icon. 
 
The horizontal distance of the track represents the runners’ parallel 
distance from the Signal, while the vertical distance represents their 
perpendicular distance. A Signal that is on the same middle track as 
the runner team is something that can interact with the runner team 
once it has scrolled down the track to them. Most of the time, these 
are obstacles like cameras or doors and the runner team hitting them 
will lead to some negative effect if the player hasn’t disabled the 
Signal. 
 
While the track is a straight path, it is meant to represent the 
overall path across many rooms and hallways that the team has to 
navigate, while the vertical separations represent side areas that can 
still potentially impact the run. For example, guards and drones are 
mobile obstacles that patrol. If they are in one of the upper or lower 
separations when they cross the team, then the team can pass by them 
without any negative effects. However, many things can affect the 
pathing of such obstacles, such as guards responding to alerts or the 
player using other signals to trigger a distraction. 
 
Some Signals (usually doors) that appear in the perpendicular sections 
may offer boons such as alternate paths or paydata that increases 
their reward for the mission. The player must decide if it’s worth 
risking the extra time and heat to pursue these side objectives. 
 
By default, objects scrolling onto the timeline from the right will be 
about 30 seconds away from crossing paths with the runner team, though 
many things can affect this speed. 
 
   4.2 Mission Arcs 
  Most missions are divided up into smaller sections, such as: 1. 
Infiltration, 2. Objective, 3. Extraction. Each one has its own Signal 
Timeline, which may have special characteristics based on that 
section’s framing. For example, an extraction section might have a 
faster scrolling timeline representing the runners having to move fast 
and the player having less time to respond to threats. Downtime 
between sections may allow the player to regroup and possibly allow 
the runners to use “camp” abilities a la Darkest Dungeon. 
 
   4.3 Heat 
  Heat represents how much attention the runner team and the player 
have drawn from corporate security. It grows at a steady rate, with 
many interactions raising or lowering it more. As it grows, difficulty 
scales higher across multiple vectors: additional obstacles spawn, 
mobile obstacles are more likely to cross paths with the runners, and 
hacking becomes harder. Since most player actions have at least a 
small heat cost, many decisions the player makes will revolve around 
the heat cost versus the in-the-moment benefit.  
 
   4.4 Signal Scanning 
  It’s not always immediately clear what a Signal represents or 
what its behavior might be. For a small time investment, the player 
can scan a signal continuously to gain more information about the 
signal. Information gained can include things like: what the Signal is 
(if not already revealed), hacking difficulty, patrol routes for some 
mobile Signals, any Intrusion Countermeasures (IC), which are software 
protections that interfere with the player in a variety of ways. 
 
   4.5 Hacking Minigames 
  To interact with a Signal, for example to disable a camera, the 
player will often have to complete a hacking minigame of various types 
(described in more detail in the Content section). These minigames are 
short puzzles that are meant to require attention without being too 
intellectually demanding. These minigames have several ‘cadences’ that 
affect how much and how often the player needs to interact with them. 
Some are simply “one and done” and once solved, the player is free to 
use any contextually available effects of that signal (Opening/Closing 
a door, triggering a distraction, etc.) Others have built in “process 
delays” that incentivize the player to deal with other things while 
waiting for the next part of the puzzle. Some minigames will be 
persistent, so the player’s progress will be intact with each 
interaction, while others might “decay” or reset entirely if not 
solved in one session. 
 
   4.6 The Runner Team and Obstacles 
  The runner team are not simple lemmings and can solve most 
problems on their own -- but their solutions are by necessity often 
messier and riskier. Each obstacle has a range of effect, represented 
by a highlighted area projected from their Signal icon. When the 
runner team enters that range, there’s an immediate and often scaling 
effect. For example, while the team is in a camera’s range, extra heat 
is generated every tick. Once the runner team icon makes contact with 
the signal, the runners have to take matters into their own hands to 
deal with the obstacle, which usually comes with a spike of heat gain, 
or some cost to the runners’ health or stamina. The exact impact will 
be determined by behind-the-scenes dice rolls based on the runner’s 
stats vs. the obstacles. The player’s goal is not to disable every 
obstacle, but rather to minimize damage to the runner team so they can 
complete their objective and extract. 
  While the player has limited ability to command the team, they 
can ask the team to briefly slow down or speed up. This costs a small 
amount of heat per tick, but may allow the team to slip past guards or 
panning cameras without needing to hack them. 
 
   4.7 Software, RAM and Overclocking 
  The player’s cyberdeck has access to several programs that can 
help them achieve their goals. Some of these programs are locked-in, 
while there are several (4-5?) open slots that allow the player some 
flexibility. Software programs take time to load and unload. While 
loading, unloading or active, they use up some amount of the player’s 
RAM pool. When the RAM pool is depleted, the player can’t deploy any 
more programs until they finish unloading some of the active programs. 
  The player can overclock their deck for brief periods to gain 
extra RAM, but doing so for more than a handful of seconds at a time 
will cause the system to reboot, cutting the player off from seeing or 
interacting with the Signal timeline. 
  Base programs include things like scanning Signals, expanding the 
Signal Timeline’s horizon, or reducing heat. Other programs may have 
more specific niches, like making one specific type of puzzle easier, 
or causing some malus to a specific class of obstacle. 
 
   4.8 IC and White Hats 
  After the first few levels, the player begins to encounter 
intrusion countermeasures (IC or ICE). These are software programs 
that either passively improve an Obstacle, or trigger when the player 
attempts to hack it. They can cause a variety of disruptive effects to 
the player. These can include direct mechanical effects like adding 
modifiers to hacking minigames or causing Signals to be hidden until 
they are closer to the team, as well as meta-mechanical effects such 
as temporarily disrupting the players viewport, reversing their 
controls, etc. 
  Further on, the player can also encounter corporate White Hat 
hackers, which act similarly but are not attached to specific Signals 
and can instead disrupt the player at any point. (Concept to be 
further defined and expanded.) 
 
   4.9 Split Tracks and Set Pieces 
  On some missions, the runner team will be forced to split up to 
tackle separate objectives simultaneously. For example, the team’s 
infiltrator may need to sneak his way through vents to open an 
unhackable door from the other side. This will result in brief 
sections where a second Signal Track appears and the player must split 
their time and attention between both. Some of these split tracks may 
have special mechanics based on the type of task. For example, there 
may be a “hold the line” sequence where one runner has to hold off 
enemies while the others continue toward the objective. That runner 
would split off on a second track where their icon is in the middle of 
the track and threats are approaching from both sides instead of the 
usual right-to-left flow. 
  There may also be “set-piece” encounters that offer slight twists 
on the usual mechanics and flow. For example, the runners may get in 
an extended fight with some corpo battle robot, and the player has to 
hack different subsystems through the fight. Or the runners are in an 
abandoned bio-lab, the lights went out and some genetically engineered 
creature is hunting them. The player has to hack doors and lights to 
block the creature and help the team navigate to an exit. 
 
   4.10 Management Layer 
To be expanded. For now, consider a very stripped down version of 
Darkest Dungeon’s roster management. The player can upgrade their 
runners’ gear, buy consumables, improve their cyberdeck, buy new 
programs, and so on. 
 
5. Content 
   5.1 Obstacle Types 
Obstacles have two broad, binary classifications: they are either 
stationary or mobile, and they are either mechanical or biological 
(mech or meat, for short). 
Stationary obstacles, such as doors and cameras, always stay in 
the same space in the Signal Timeline and always move toward the 
runner team at a fixed speed based on the speed the runner team is 
moving at. 
Mobile obstacles, such as guards and drones, can move along the 
perpendicular axis, and can also sometimes move faster or slow toward 
the runner team depending on their patrol route or if they are 
responding to an alert or distraction. 
Mechanical obstacles (cameras, doors, drones) can usually be seen 
directly interacted with by the player via the Signal timeline. 
Biological obstacles (guards, mostly) are usually invisible to 
the player unless the player has hacked a nearby camera, or the runner 
team has spotted them. They cannot be interacted with directly, but 
they can be distracted or disabled by other nearby hackable objects. 
 
   5.1.1 Specific Obstacle Mechanics 
  Obstacle: Door [Stationary, Mechanical] 
  Description: The simplest obstacle. If locked and on the central 
path, the runner team will take time and gain heat as they find 
another way to pass it. Most likely to contain a time-intensive and/or 
multi-stage minigame. 
Player Hacking Interactions: Open, Close, Lock, Unlock. 
 
  Obstacle: Trap [Stationary, Mechanical] 
  Description: Similar to doors, but have more dangerous effects if 
the runner team makes contact, often costing health or stamina. 
Player Hacking Interactions: Disable, Enable, Overload (only on 
some traps; heat-intensive but can disable other nearby obstacles) 
 
Obstacle: Camera [Stationary, Mechanical] 
Description: A simple obstacle that can cause significant heat 
gain if the runner team enters its range. Usually has short and simple 
puzzles. Hacking a camera automatically reveals any nearby biological 
Signals (guards). 
Player Hacking Interactions: Blind (quickly and easily disables 
camera, but at a higher base heat cost), Spoof (tougher minigame to 
hack, but no heat gain). 
Possible Variations: Some cameras pan, and their line of effect 
shifts into perpendicular areas. With timing and luck, the runner team 
may be able to bypass them without needing to hack them. Some cameras, 
once disabled, will reboot themselves after a delay. 
 
Obstacle: Drone [Mobile, Mechanical] 
Description: Similar to cameras, but move along patrol routes 
that make it harder to predict if/when they the runner team will cross 
their path. Longer scans can reveal some information about their 
patrol route, such as how long until the move and which direction. 
  Player Hacking Interactions: Same as camera, plus Reroute (alters 
patrol pattern). 
  Possible Variations: Combat Drones that are more likely to damage 
the runners. Disruptor or Cloaker drones that hide nearby signals or 
disrupt the player’s ability to hack. 
 
Obstacle: Guard [Mobile, Biological] 
Description: Similar to drones, but more reactive to alerts or 
suspicious activity. Invisible to the player unless near a hacked 
camera or very close to the runner team. Very likely to cost runner 
health or stamina if the team has to deal with them directly. 
  Player Hacking Interactions: None, but see Other Signals, below. 
 
   5.2 Other Signals 
  The signal timeline will have several other “internet of things” 
signals, representing a variety of connected objects. Many of these 
will be useless and only there to add visual interest and noise. 
Others can be hacked for a variety of effects, such as distracting or 
even disabling guards or drones. For example, the player might be able 
to hack a terminal near a guard to generate a false alert that the 
guard spends time investigating, allowing the runner team to slip by. 
 
   5.2 Minigame/Puzzle Types 
  Minigames trigger when the player tries to hack most things, and 
must be solved in order to access the contextual functions of that 
Signal. They present as movable popup windows, and organizing the 
player’s interface will be a subtle part of gameplay. There will be 
several types, with different types of Signals tending to have a 
specific minigame type, though this is not universal. 
NOTE: This list is in “blue sky ideation” mode. Will likely be cut 
down to 3 or 4 minigames at base. 
   
  CORE Minigame: Terminal 
  Description: Less of a minigame and more of a systemic glue that 
helps sell the fantasy while requiring some level of skill and detail 
orientation. This is the front-end of every hacking interaction in the 
game -- when the player clicks on a Signal, it’ll pop up a terminal 
window and the player will usually have to do at least one small task 
before getting to the hacking proper. 
Involves a simplistic shell command language with 4-5 commands, a 
few flags/modifiers, and some interaction with variables. It would 
play out as a simple call-and-response where the terminal presents 
some data and asks for input and you have to respond with the correct 
command to bypass it. 
-  Layer 1 would be matching the correct command.  
-  Layer 2 would be incorporating a variable (like some terminals 
might require you to run [ACCESS] <filename>, where <filename> is 
something you have to quickly scan the terminal output for. Maybe 
sometimes it’s [ACCESS] core.sys and sometimes it’s [ACCESS] 
system.dat or whatever) 
-  Layer 3 would be adding flags to respond to small details. Like 
some terminals maybe have a specific protection type and you have 
to do [ACCESS] core.sys -b to bypass it. 
Should be just enough complexity that it feels pretty easy to 
remember but satisfying once you’ve internalized it. 
Might also serve as a sort of core mini-mini game that interacts with 
other puzzle types (see example below). 
 
  Minigame: Decryption 
  Description: Longest type of puzzle by default, most common on 
doors. The player would be presented with a very simple cipher to 
decode, but the full key would not be immediately available. The 
player might be able to hurry the decryption with some terminal 
commands, or brute force it based on deduction. 
  For example, let’s say the cipher is ABCD=FGHI. The game shows 
you three pieces of info: 1) the cipher: ABCD, 2) the set of possible 
answers [E,F,G,H,I], and 3) two parts of the key: A = F, C = H. The 
player can wait for the rest of the key to complete, or can try and 
intuit the answer. Obviously this is a very simple version and there’s 
infinite room to scale complexity. 
 
  Minigame: Matrix-style Search 
  Description: You see a grid of shifting hexadecimal numbers. One 
static sequence is highlighted on the left (e.g., E9). You have to 
spot E9 in the shifting grid on the right and click it before it 
moves. Could be expanded to require some basic Hex math (which is 
pretty easy to learn by repetition, IMO), like you have to match two 
symbols that add up to a value, or you’re given one value and have to 
find the complementary symbol that adds up to a value. 
 
   
  Minigame: Connections 
  Description: Classic “draw a line from point A to point B without 
intersecting or crossing the danger zones.” Alternatively, a system 
where you have n inputs and n outputs. Signals fire from inputs in 
sequence. You're placing/rotating nodes in real-time to route each 
signal to its correct output before the next one fires. Complexity 
scales via speed, grid size, and obstacle nodes that block or 
redirect. 
 
  Minigame?: Background “Twister” 
  Description: A special type of minigame (or possibly an IC 
disruption) that requires the player to hold down one or more keys for 
an extended duration while continuing to manage other tasks. 
Alternatively, could be framed as a “timeout” where the player has to 
revisit a specific window and do some simple task to keep the 
connection from timing out, which might lead to heat gain or having to 
do a more complicated task to reestablish the connection. 
   
 
   5.3 Runner Archetypes 
  Protoype development will rely on generic runners without any 
special skills or features. To be developed, possibly to include 
specific classes that can fulfill different functions, especially with 
regard to split track sections (section 4.9). 
 
   5.4 Mission Types 
  To be developed. For now, consider standard Shadowrun/cyberpunk 
corporate espionage-type stuff. Sabotage, technology theft, 
headhunting, etc. Different missions will have different threat 
distributions, different mission arcs, etc. 
 
6. Aesthetic Direction 
 
Visual: Clean UI, high contrast, information-dense but readable. Think 
Hacknet meets Into the Breach. Most information can be communicated by 
simple shapes, colors and icons. 
Audio: Synth tension, radio chatter, mechanical keyboard sounds, alert 
beeps. Audio cues for each obstacle type to help with information 
processing. 
Tone: Cyberpunk noir with gallows humor. Corpo dystopia played straight 
but not grimdark. 
 
7. Scope & Milestones 
 
 
Priority  Features 
Must have  Single track, 3-4 puzzle types, 5-6 obstacle types, core runner archetypes, 
basic resource system 
Should have  Split track sections (one type), runner abilities, heat system 
Nice to have  Multiple split types, crew management and characterization, procedural 
generation, “set piece” combat breakout system 
Later  Full campaign, multiple corps, roguelike modifiers 
 
8. Open Questions 
 
- How does difficulty scale across a campaign? 
- What happens when a runner dies? Is there permadeath? 
- How much narrative framing does each mission need? 
- How do players learn new puzzle types? 