Prompt 1: Signals

As the first signal (perimeter camera) scrolls onto the screen
"This is a SIGNAL. Signals represent all the networked devices in the facility.\n
The shape of the signal can tell you what of device it is, but you can learn more information by SCANNING the signal.\n
To SCAN a signal, hold the mouse over it. Keep scanning this signal until all it's info is revealed."
Prompt 2: Scanning

After completing the first scan
"Scanning this Signal has revealed it's type, it's access parameters and any IC (Intrusion Countermeasures) on the Signal. You don't have to Scan a Signal to hack it, but it's worth it if you have the time.
Since it's ACCESS type is open and there's no IC, hacking it will be a breeze. Click on the signal to connect to it."
Prompt 3: Terminal

When the player connects to the signal -> terminal window appears and grabs focus
"You're connected to the camera, now let's take it out. There are a few different ways to deal with obstacles like these, but for now, we're going to do it fast and loud: with KILL."
"Since you're already connected to the signal, all you have to do is type KILL and hit enter."
Prompt 4: Heat

After the player successfully kills the camera. Heat tracker appears.
"KILL is easy, but it's not subtle. See how your HEAT gauge spiked? Too much HEAT can cause you all kinds of problems down the line, so don't just KILL every signal -- don't worry, soon you'll learn other, quieter ways of disabling Signals."
"HEAT is also gained by any other action or consequence that causes unwanted attention on the team. If they get spotted by a camera, have to take out a guard or blow a door, that'll build heat too."
Prompt 5: Minigame

Second signal (door) appears on screen
"Scan this next signal to see what you're up against."
Then, after scan:
"This one won't be so easy. It's encrypted. Fortunately, you have just the right program for that: DECRYPT. Connect to the Signal by clicking and then type RUN DECRYPT."
Prompt 6: Minigame, continued:

Decrypt window appears
"Decrypt can break any encryption, but it takes time -- time you probably won't have. Fortunately, you can nudge it along. Take a look at the [KEYSPACE] sections. They show all the possible characters that might fit the cipher. As DECRYPT does it's work, it'll cull one or more possibilities from each KEYSPACE. But you can also help it along by using deduction or just brute-force guessing. Guess right and you optimize the algorithm, making the next cull come faster. See if you can crack this one before the runners reach the door."
Prompt 7:

After solving the decryption
"Now we have access. [SIDE NOTE: I'm realizing here I don't have an obvious way to do something like toggle a door locked/unlocked. Don't really want to add a command if we can avoid it, or add in properties/subprocesses too soon. Maybe a simple command like "TOGGLE" would fit. Thoughts?]
Prompt 8: IC

After runners pass the door, another camera scrolls into view. When player connects, a guard also comes into view:
"Another camera. This one is a bit trickier. It's OPEN but... there's also IC: Reboot. Reboot will re-enable the signal after a short delay if you KILL it. Take it down too soon, and it'll be up and running in time to spot the team. Let's wait a few seconds..."
Prompt 9: IC, continued:

After the new camera has gotten closer
"All right, time to KILL. It should stay disabled long enough for the team to slip past. If you want to be sure, you can use the -> key to prompt the team to hustle. It's a great way to slip past any time-sensitive obstacles."
Prompt 10: Guards

After the reboot camera, another one shows up, maybe one that's in a side-lane and not immediately dangerous. Player connects to that camera. (Prompt them to connect if necessary).
"This camera isn't likely to be a problem for the team, but... by accessing it's feed, you can now see that there's a guard patrolling the area. Guards don't just generate heat if they spot you - they can injure your runners!"
"Worse yet, most guards can't be disabled by hacking alone. But you still have options. The simplest one is to cause a distraction. Let's see what other signals are nearby..."
Prompt 11: Distractions

Soon, a distraction-type signal scrolls into view. Player scans or connects (prompted if needed)
"Perfect. Even something as simple as a rogue vending machine set to dispense endlessly can draw a guard's attention for a few seconds. Like with the Reboot camera, timing is key -- the guard will eventually return to their patrol route, so the team needs to be ghosts by then. [NOTE: This is another situation where we need a "TOGGLE" type command, since we don't want the distraction to fire just by connecting]
Prompt 12: Skill Test

After guard is bypassed
"All right, you've learned the basics. The real test is: what do you do when you have to decrypt a door lock, distract a guard and disable multiple cameras in the span of a few seconds. Good luck!
Short "gauntlet" scrolls onto the screen with a few tighter-grouped signals
Prompt 13: Tactical Pause

As gauntlet gets closer
"If you get overwhelmed, hit to pause and catch your breath -- you can't interact with Signals while paused, but you can look up terminal commands on the help sheet (F1), view terminal logs and scanned data."
Prompt 14: Run End

After gauntlet, "victory terminal" scrolls in
"You did it the hard part. All that's left it's collect your reward. Connect to the final terminal and claim your reward."
[NOTE: Another "TOGGLE" type thing here.]
"Victory will earn you cash to upgrade your deck and experience to improve your runners (NYI!)"